foreign
[Music]
to the art of accomplishment where we
explore how deepening connection with
ourselves and others leads to creating
the life we want with enjoyment and ease
I'm Brett Kistler and I'm here again
with Joe Hudson
hey Brett how's it going
it is going well so today we wanted to
talk about the opposite of trying
and this is this is a thing that I that
I really love is one of the one of my
favorite kind of most simple
demonstrations that
that you did when I first met you and
um and it really just comes into it like
any aspect of Our Lives to be able to
find where where the trying is and what
and what that feels like and what other
options are available to this to us so
I'm really excited to get into this one
into more detail
yeah the the for those of you who
haven't been through this with me
somehow or another it always happens
like in early interactions with me
somebody
somebody talks to me about trying so
it's a very simple thing you can do the
exercise at home right now you just put
your two hands together uh put them
together like they are Palms in front of
you like you have a prayer sign
that's happening and then what I ask
people to do is I say try to pull your
pinkies apart and what people do is they
actually pull their pinkies apart and
then I say no no no I didn't say pull
your pinkies apart I say try to pull
your pinkies apart
and then the person
really puts a lot of effort into pulling
the pinkies apart but doesn't actually
pull them apart so if you're at home do
that right now see what that's like to
really try to pull your pinkies apart
but not do it
and then without thinking for a moment
without using your head at all
take this feeling that you have and then
feel the opposite of it
yeah as I'm doing that right now I'm
just noticing this separation between
efforting and action
yeah
yeah there's also like us
for me the main purpose is when you feel
that feeling of the opposite of trying
the whole system relaxes and you could
call it maybe allowing or receiving or
listening there's like a
like you're in a far more in a flow
state but there's this deep kind of uh
allowing or receiving that happens
and what's interesting about almost
everybody I work with especially when I
first start working with them
they're constantly thinking that their
Solutions are in
trying or an effort what do I have to do
is the question and oftentimes the
answer is it's actually the opposite of
the doing it's the undoing that's
important
it's the opposite of the trying it is
the it is the allowing or the receiving
that's important
and
it's one of those things that is this
superpower when you get it
and we almost never consider it as a
society I notice we almost never
consider it and as a society I notice
that we uh Really Don't Rock the full
power of the opposite of trying and so
that that's what I was hoping we could
talk about today
yeah of course I I can't let us get any
farther without bringing Yoda into this
do or do not there is no try
right yes
yeah
yeah I think I think I love that same I
mean I remember that as a kid and how
much it affected me and and there's
something
yes there's like this deep truth of of
you're either doing something you're not
doing you're not trying which is a
pointer also to the flow
uh but the the thing about flow is that
there is a deep receiving in it there's
like uh like if you're in a flow state
there's no trying but there's also like
you're listening it's more like being a
channel right the the experience is more
of being a channel it's more of
um receiving and like maybe being a
conduit and that's and that's the thing
that isn't in that quote which I think
is
an important thing because it allows you
to get out of the Trine like a lot of
the times like somebody is talking about
how do I do that and I'll say something
like how do you drop a hot frying pan
but it still makes no sense to them
because it's just like they're so in
that world of like oh how do I uh you
know and and oftentimes like oh it's
just a receiver allowing that lets it
happen
yeah okay so so bringing this Beyond
sort of the the workshop party trick
that it is
um like it's initial
it's sort of the the initial iteration
and where it just kind of feels good oh
yeah great there's I don't have to try
to pull my hands apart I can just pull
them apart but what about you know
solving my
financial crisis or having my partner
not abuse me or what other what other
things that we're working with in our
lives that just don't feel like
not trying is going to resolve what
makes this
so fractally applicable and important in
our lives
yeah so it's
what's interesting to me about it is
that there there's a time for trying and
then there's a time for receiving and
the major issue is not that one is good
or one is bad or one is the way and one
is not the way the major issue is that
most of the time we don't see the option
of
uh
of of not trying and so there's a really
cool Taoist story about this and the
Taoist tradition in general has a
tremendous amount about trying and not
trying and what they call the way but I
love this story so uh
a
um
uh Prince comes into a butcher shop and
he asks a butcher how often do you
sharpen your knives and the butcher says
I don't I don't sharpen my knives and
the prince is like that's ridiculous
even the best butchers that work at the
palace have to sharpen their knives
you know once uh once a month
and he says oh yeah no I don't have to
my my knife finds the space between the
the bone and the meat and if there's
ever an issue if there's ever a place
where it doesn't move through with ease
I just sit there and wait
and it
eventually just comes undone
and that's this the story of
of this Butcher and is this I think it's
a
I think it's a chuangza story and and
it's and it's it speaks to it so
beautifully and and what and the the
other way to say this in more practical
terms is that is this quote uh Letting
Go doesn't happen by telling yourself to
let go it happens by clearly seeing the
pain of holding on
and from here the Mind lets go when it's
ready
and so there's no doing in that and so
particularly with psychological pain
there is the it's though the work is
often in the letting go it's not in the
doing anything it's not in the trying
it's not in the effort it's in the
receiving yeah sort of if you if you
allow the pain of holding on then the
natural
your your body and your emotions your
Soul's natural responses to
do something different drop it yeah yeah
how do you how do you drop a hot frying
pan you feel it that's all you have to
do is just feel it and you're gonna let
go
right that's the yeah and then of course
there's the there's the fork in the
electrical socket like there's there's
other there's other metaphorical
examples where
it would be better to drop it but you
actually just hold on tighter because
that's what kind of response you have
that so I feel like there's I think it'd
be valuable to point to some kind of
wisdom in that like what is what is the
benefit what what had us adapt in such a
way that would have us hold on and grip
and try
right that's exactly it so the way we
hold on tighter is we say how do we do
it how do we fix it what's wrong with me
how do I improve it what do I do it like
there's a lot of ego in that and there
is a lot of doing in that and there's
not a lot of receiving or allowing in
that and that is exactly the methodology
in which which we use to hold on tighter
and there are times when that makes a
lot of sense if I'm on a life raft
that's what I'm gonna do
you know it I if if I am
in like there's ways in which I would
use my will both in business and and
then uh and and relationships or are
coaching with somebody where I would use
my will for that exact purpose
and I there's no problem with that I
think there's a like I said a time and a
place for that the question is you can't
really know what the the thing is that
you can't really know when the time of
the place is unless you really
understand the other tool unless you
really understand what it is to receive
to allow to let go to to listen hmm okay
okay so so give me some some practical
examples of this
yeah so none of these are perfect but I
want to be really specific in them
like listening is a great example and
how that can change your life by the way
that you listen uh the resilience that
comes from uh allowing the pleasure that
comes from allowing peace authenticity
Joy all of those things really don't
respond to trying very well at all I
mean occasionally there's certain ways
in which it works but generally all of
these things Prosper through the
allowing process so just like giving
giving you an example on listening so we
do this exercise in in one of the
courses where you have somebody
uh talk to somebody and then they listen
in one way they listen with like
skepticism and then they listen in
another way like that person is like the
most wise person in the whole world
and what people often notice in that
exercise is different things are shared
the way that we listen
basically how well we receive
how well we allow the other person to be
allow will create different stories that
we hear we'll get different levels of
honesty intimacy transparency our whole
world will be different
and by the way we listen however
I very rarely ever see anybody say oh
how am I going to listen in this next
meeting they always think what am I
going to say how am I going to present
myself what does a slide deck going to
look like they never say how am I going
to listen
though listening can have a much deeper
effect
than what you say in a meeting
and so that's a that's a really great
example of of how much power you have
just in the receiving
as compared to the doing and if you
don't believe it
spend one day going around listening to
everybody with skepticism and then take
the next day and listen to everybody
like they are you know the most wise
Sage speaking to you
and see see how your world changes in a
day yeah
I just had the mental image of like a
child running up to to the front door to
show mommy the mud pie they made and
they're covered in mud
all this they're all excited and also
the mom is just standing there arms on
her hips like yeah yeah
just the the immediate deflation yeah
yeah the quality the quality of the
listener does directly back Channel and
impact the way that we share
and that's a really interesting
observation that yeah we we go into we
go into a meeting preparing for what we
can't possibly prepare for which is how
listening is the other person going to
be right yeah exactly rather than how
how are we going to listen and
like what is the quality of our presence
while we are sharing and and exchanging
ideas
yeah hmm okay so so that's that's for
listening you you kind of went through a
list there like listening resilience was
the next one yeah resilience how does
that work there yeah resilience is a
really interesting one because it works
like a little sideways there if you look
at
for example if you look at economies
that are highly planned
that don't allow
that don't have allowing in them if they
are fragile they they might grow for a
while Etc but they they become fragile
they become weak they
whereas if you
um
if you have a non-planned economy where
people are following their inspiration
you're doing a lot of allowing and that
allowing creates a lot of resilience
decades and decades it's not like 30
years of an economy it's hundreds upon
hundreds of years of an economy
so that's another example in business
another example would be open source
the resilience of an open source
platform instead of a non-open source
platform
um the same thing with Uber like the the
more they're just like oh we're allowing
people to drive when they want to drive
how they want to drive it becomes a far
more resilient thing than a taxi service
Which is far more controlled so allowing
people inside of a company
um is it very much
creates that resiliency internally that
same resiliency is created by allowing
the emotional experiences that we have
by not managing and constricting on
those they help us get through
transformation much quicker they help us
heal much quicker they allow us to make
decisions much quicker as we've talked
about in other podcasts so it's that
allowing that creates resiliency in us
in our companies and and yeah and you
can see companies that are more
decentralized oftentimes
um are more in general are more
resilient and also win competitively
not in all cases but in many yeah
yeah and I can also see that helping
with pivots you know responding to to
Market changes and then internally
responding to changes in our own in our
own selves our own capacities our own
environment allowing us to update our
identity with who we are now rather than
a lag lagged behind idea of
who we've been and then insisting on
maintaining that yeah if you really want
to geek out on it there's a book called
Reinventing organizations that really is
talking about a structure of
company that allows for a a lot of
allowing a lot of listening and it
really you know has a very particular
way in which it moves in the world so if
you really want to geek out on as far as
like company culture that's another way
to check into it
yeah how about pleasure
yeah
so pleasure that one's like the easiest
one to explain it's like
um
so you know men and women obviously are
different but if you if you just take it
sexually there's definitely a group of
people that if they really try to have
an orgasm they can't
that re orgasm is something that the
more you try the further it goes away
even for those people who
um who are who can have an orgasm
through trying that the orgasm is
usually tight and shortened
instead of where what people would say
call Valley orgasms or something like
that where it can be very long extended
pleasurable experiences through the not
active trying but the other way to just
instead if you don't if you want to take
it out of sex for a second just like
try to find pleasure without allowing
you know what I mean like that try to
enjoy the sunset
yeah try to enjoy a breath try to enjoy
and so the way I Define pleasure here is
the best way I've heard to Define
pleasure is
um observing the movement of your
Sensations in your body or the movement
of energy in your body
that's that's what pleasure is it is a
listening to the sensations of your body
and if you're trying to get there it's
it just doesn't work whereas
if you're allowing the pleasure of a
breath in that can be an incredible
experience and if you're trying to have
pleasure in your breath in it's a lot
less pleasurable so and we have this
um exercise that you know we've done a
master class where
um it's like how do you enjoy and and
people find out that enjoyment is the
undoing it's not the doing of things
like pleasure is and so that's that's
like that's such an easy one because
everybody can viscerally feel that you
know yeah yeah and I'm thinking about
you know a deep tissue massage or body
work as well and one thing that you had
mentioned there is it's allowing the
sensations in our body that statement
has no valence it's not allowing the
positive Sensations in the body right
and enduring the negative ones or
ignoring the negative ones or
suppressing or having there be negative
ones in the first place it's just
allowing the sensation in your body
which is
yeah bringing that back into a massage
it's bringing aware it's being aware of
the movement of Sensations in your body
specifically the awareness is important
feeling the movement of it is important
as well just for pleasure it doesn't
have anything to do with the allowing
part but it's
those words are are precise on that one
yeah yeah yeah well allowing sort of the
thing that happens when you're in the
opposite of trying yeah exactly yeah
yeah okay what about in a more
psychological or spiritual level like
peace pleasure this was sort of in the
body what about just our general
orientation towards
towards the world and towards reality
yeah I mean the best way I've ever heard
anybody talk about pieces
um in a war with yourself you always
lose
and so it's really about dropping the
war and and that's an undoing it's not a
doing
and and trying to force yourself to do
something doesn't create peace trying to
force yourself to
eat the right foods and exercise in the
right way and meditate the right amount
none of that brings you peace and and
people know that because they've been
doing it for decades looking for peace
and it doesn't come peace actually comes
from the allowing
from the receiving of it
and so you know and what I notice is
that some people try to get to peace in
the opposite way by avoiding
um conflict but but avoiding conflict
just creates a war inside yourself and
so so that doesn't work either it is an
allowing it's not an avoidance and so
that's like any moment that you've had
in peace it's been received it hasn't
been something that you have
that you have forced yourself into or
tried to get into
yeah so double clicking on that
statement about if you avoid the
conflict to keep the peace you are
creating conflict in yourself so example
here being if if there's something going
on with your partner and there's a need
that's not being met and
rather than letting that conflict arise
like rather than allowing rather than
letting it be there and be like hey
there's there's a need that I have
that's not being met and just letting
that enter the space between you correct
then the conflict between your need and
not having it met exists entirely within
you not entirely because it leaks out in
all kinds of different ways yeah yeah
but like those are all then you know
like Downstream effects of the war
that's inside yourself so rather than
having it be in yourself you can just
allow that there is conflict and if
you're
if you are with it in the way that you
just described about being with pleasure
being with
the noticing the movement of energy in
your body noticing the movement of
energy or emotion in a relationship
noticing the flow of power or
disempowerment or
uh needs and wants in a team yes then
then you don't need to be in a war with
yourself and there may be conflict there
may be disagreements there may be
no maybe there will be yeah that's right
without without that tension life
doesn't exist you know we sit in nature
and we can feel the peace of nature
and there is tension in every cell
around us every animal every tree around
us tension is what creates life
and so there will be pieces and created
through lack of tension it's created
through the allowing of it
yeah the Buddhists have a saying around
this too which is like
um that life is painful
you can't avoid that right I'm
paraphrasing but life is painful you
can't avoid that but you don't have to
suffer
and that's the it's pointing to the same
thing
yeah yeah so now that you bring nature
into this I'm imagining like uh a tree
Sprout growing through the crack in the
concrete and I don't imagine there being
any trying occurring there
right it's just happening
that's right yeah that that's the thing
is people think that trying happens like
is required for evolution
but the the truth is that Evolution
happens whether we're trying or not
growth movement happens when they're
trying to not and oftentimes happens
quicker just like it does in a child
there's a lot of not effort in a child
and a lot of growth
yeah so then what's the relation between
trying and tension if tension exists in
all of evolution and all of life
what is the difference that between that
natural tension and the trying that
we're talking about here that we humans
and maybe some other
complex nervous systems have
has evolved as a strategy yeah so again
I'm not trying to say that trying is bad
in some
complete sense like there's trying is
appropriate at some some moment so so I
just to make sure that it doesn't become
a binary
situation but in general the Trine that
is ineffective
that happens is usually happens because
we are trying to get out of
an experience right so the trying is is
is not hugging the cactus it's trying to
get away from the cactus right it is the
avoidance of it that it typically
creates the Trine
who are trying to get towards something
or away from something rather than
allowing it and that that's that's when
the trying
becomes counterproductive
if we're embracing the intensity if
we're
if we are loving and and allowing for
the intensity trying may arise but it's
not in a way that creates suffering it's
not through like
the you know the
it's it's not through the craving or the
aversion is the way that the Buddhists
would say it right not not that wanting
is a bad or anything like that it's just
that our suffering comes from from that
experience yeah I'm just picturing
having hugged the cactus and having a
bunch of cactus needles in me and not
trying to get them out and you know if
you've ever had like a tiny little
cactus needle stuck in your skin and it
breaks off and like you know the tra
whatever it's called to go in there with
tweezers and very carefully try to get
the thing out could be considered trying
you could also do it without with or
without tension or with or without like
suffering yes and so it sounds it sounds
to me that what you're describing as
trying here often involves that there's
there's resistance to the experience
that makes it trying that's right that's
right yeah
it's a great way to say it
got it yeah okay so there were a couple
other examples that you had mentioned
yeah I think there's I think there was
two more uh yeah authenticity was one
okay yeah and joy yeah I think Joy was
the other yeah
um
yeah so what I mean by authenticity here
is
is not just saying the first thing that
comes to your mind I think a lot of
folks think that that's what
authenticity is about
um but that can be conditioning that can
be trauma that can be a lot of responses
that aren't particularly authentic so
when I think about authenticity it means
that I'm not avoiding being myself and
I'm not defending being myself
if I'm avoiding being myself then I'm
clearly not okay with myself and that's
not authentic
and if I'm defending myself I have to
agree that there's something wrong with
me and so and so I don't mean defending
isn't protecting sometimes obviously you
need to protect yourself I mean that
feeling of defensiveness that wall up
that that non-hop and open-heartedness
and so
to me that it like the only way to be
authentic is to allow yourself
is is to listen to yourself
to
um
to receive who you are and let that
Express it's again like being a channel
it's not
it's not a it's not a doing
like I had to really try hard to be
authentic is like it it just rattles the
brain when you think about it that way
so it is a very much a receiving or a
listening
yeah the trying comes in the defense and
the avoidance
yeah yeah and I'm also imagining that
now as it as it becomes a strategy and
it gets into our like from our body up
into our heads
then there becomes a lot of trying it's
like
if I'm operating from a core belief that
I can't be seen as wrong or bad
and it would be bad for me to be seen
that way then I need to figure out how
to defend myself and manage other
people's story
and all the all the other
all the other Downstream effects of that
yeah and attracting other people's
opinions and needs rather than my own
feelings and then all that this
connection occurs Downstream
yeah that's right our our our main
reason for not being authentic is
because we want a certain reaction from
other folks
which means we are not allowing them to
be themselves either
and and my noticing is that the the more
I move from my authenticity that's all I
really want from others I don't want
them to agree with me I don't want them
to tell me how great I am I don't want
them to give me attention
the biggest Joy I have in interacting
with others is their authenticity and
being authentic together that's what
actually feels
deeply intimate
beautiful well how about how about Joy
then
Joy I've said this a lot in before and
which is the the joy is the matriarch of
a family of emotions and she won't come
into a house where her children aren't
welcome
where children aren't listened to where
her children aren't allowed where her
children aren't received you know it's
the it's the same idea it's that deep
welcoming of our emotional experience is
what allows for Joy Joy isn't like you
can see it you you see it all the time
with like especially in the 20s where
you're just like I'm just gonna smile
because that'll make me happy it's like
Joy doesn't come through Force Joy
doesn't come through effort
Joey doesn't come because I'm going to
be positive all the time I'm not going
to have any bad emotions like those
people I've worked with plenty of them
when they hit 40 they're like my whole
[__] life is miserable and all I've
done is be positive
Joy comes because we allow all the
emotional experiences to be and then
and then they clear out they move and
then when that when that dock is empty
Joy Moves In Joy comes it's the one that
likes to settle in place I have all the
other ones want to move like that the
undercurrent of our emotional experience
is joy and unless something's wrong and
then that can move through
yeah this has been a really big one for
me even even lately as as I've been
starting another company and there's
slide decks and there's presentations
and there's conversations with people
and we're continuing to do the podcast
and preparing for that and I've I've
been noticing like over the past couple
weeks that there have been times where
my
my joy has been like decreased because
I'm like I'm doing things that I
normally would be enjoying but I'm like
just not really there and it's because
some part of me is like often the trying
of well this has to get done this way
that has to get done that way there's a
bunch of moving pieces and then it gets
off a little bit I'm like I'm juggling
so much and yeah just just noticing that
it's like if I if I notice the absence
of Joy then that's a place where I can
look where am I trying right now
where am I where am I in resistance and
not just allowing what what's happening
and when when that moves then it's like
oh great this this thing doesn't need to
be perfect it's just needs to be like an
authentic expression of what I'm doing
right now in the you know the time
that's available and yeah like it's an
iteration and we get to come back to all
those principles of you know being in
connection and being an iteration and
being
yeah one of one of my principles from
from the recent decisions course that I
came out with was I'm already free
and so that's another way just I I
notice when I feel like I'm not free
because I'm dependent upon how some
situation goes I get to just remember
that and then the trying releases
and then the joy can come back
yeah and so the interesting thing that
you're saying here that I think is
really important because some I remember
the first time I heard some idea like
this and I was like wait but you know I
gotta try some things like I gotta I
gotta like
get gas in the car I gotta like if I'm
gonna make my business work I have to
and
and and so it's really important to when
when we say trying we don't mean doing
right and that's back to the Yoda thing
so I think if anybody's lost there
that's a really important thing and I
and I also really dig what you're saying
about freedom
I'm already free it
it it
it's like there's something that happens
in the receiving which is like the
recognition
that and there's a really cool little
point that you're you're you're making
right here which is that
our record our capacity to recognize
to have the epiphany
happens far more in the receptive place
than it does in the trying place
there's like this there's and so when
you say I'm already free there's like
the recognition allows for this movement
to happen that it whereas if your
principal was
um I can be free
it doesn't do the same thing
yeah because I can't be free if I try
hard enough it becomes what it what it
would be right exactly yeah instead of I
am it's like yeah it's a great principle
that's cool
take that yeah so that that's that's the
joy part yeah
again another another way that I'm
thinking of like kind of intellectually
slicing up this this trying concept is
that when I notice I'm trying it's
generally that there's actually
something I'm not wanting to feel it
might be helplessness and if I'm not
feeling that helplessness I'm not if I'm
not feeling that fear then I go into
like focus and not necessarily
a productive Focus but sort of like a
blinders Focus uh sort of like a fear uh
fight flight kind of state and when I'm
in that state I'm I have less capacity
to be authentic less of capacity for Joy
less capacity for peace and I find
myself in the struggle with reality in
the fight
yeah it also just takes a [__] [__]
ton of energy it just takes it like you
and I have seen this with people who
have gone through some of the courses
and they have like this moment of oh I
can allow my emotional experiences and
then they have so much energy they even
have a hard time sleeping for a couple
of days where they're just like yeah you
know and so that's a huge like once you
experience that once you experience like
oh me managing and trying and
controlling all this stuff requires a
lot of energy that could be going
towards
getting a lot done and and what I've
noticed is that
like nowadays like one of the things
that as people work with me they're like
wow you're you do so much stuff and and
you get so much done it happens quickly
and it's you know some people complain
about not being able to keep up and
and it's not that I'm moving quickly in
my experience it's just that I'm not
wasting my effort on trying or managing
my experience or trying to make it
different or resisting the experience
and so
what what I think is what I think it's
hard for people to grok until they fully
feel it is that you get a lot more done
in the not doing
than in the trying
yeah
awesome thank you Joe yeah enjoyed this
thanks for being with me again Brett
awesome
thank you everybody for listening and if
you know somebody who might appreciate
what you've heard today please pass this
along and share what resonated for you
we love your feedback so hit us with
comments or questions through our
website Circle Community or tweet us at
Art of a comp you can reach out join our
newsletter or check out our courses at
Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you